[ Music]
>> Lilou: [Background Music]
Hello my Delicious co-creators,
Lilou.
I'm on the road actually
today in Sta.
Cruz after all these European
traveling I have to stop
by California because this
is such a resourceful place
with amazing people
really taking on big things
and big change for the world.
You're the-- You've created
this amazing movie called Thrive
that a lot of us know and
have seen and might even be
on Gaiam TV, I guess so.
>> Foster Gamble: Yeah
>> Lilou: Yeah
>> Foster Gamble: Well,
it's nice to be back
with the Gaiam community.
I have so much respect for
the information and the beauty
and love that is coming
through this network
so I'm honored to
be back on again.
>> Lilou: Yes.
And this time I really want
to focus on the solution
because we spoke and there're
many videos about the issues
on the reality check that needs
to happen and all of that.
But here you have the chance
to have-- well not the chance,
it was-- it's been a lot
of work that you've been
out there researching.
And you met a lot of wonderful
people as a consequence
of putting so much
information out.
You receive feedback,
you receive email,
you receive solutions that you
were maybe not even thinking
of before.
So I would love to see
what are those, you know,
what's really happening
in the world?
How much hope can we have?
And do we already is-- already
everything out there, you know?
>> Foster Gamble: Well, in
our title, we asked Thrive,
"What on earth will it take?"
And that wasn't indicating
that we have all the answers.
We were just in that quest
and we had found some
important things.
But we were really asking the
world, what is it going to take?
And the response has
been so fantastic
and still we get a thousand
communications a day.
And there's so many
creative, compassionate,
really courageous people
working on solutions
in so many different areas.
We finally in response created
a Solutions Hub on our website.
Because everywhere we travel
there were spontaneous groups
emerging often Thrive inspired,
sometimes there's Thrive
in their title that were
taking on different issues.
And so we have been
ongoingly creating a more
and more effective internet
hub where people can connect
with each other by
sector, by issue,
by level of engagement,
by region.
They can either work locally
or connect around the world
to take on different issues.
And they're already
taking on over 125 issues.
And that can be overwhelming
if you think you
have to do them all.
But people are doing
just the ones
that they feel most drawn to do.
So you can actually go on in our
website at thrivemovement.com.
Go to the Solutions
Hub under Get Engaged
and you can then search for a
group or you can create a group.
So you can search by
your area or you can put
in a topic like chemtrails.
And there are-- you'll see this
list of topics and I clicked
on chemtrails because Kimberly
is doing a blog on chemtrails.
I clicked on it yesterday,
there're 64 different groups
around the world who are
all working on chemtrails.
So now what they're doing is
connecting with each other
and sharing books, DVDs,
websites, artwork, petitions,
class actions, lawsuits, and how
to raise money for
your projects.
So then instead of us being
a bottleneck through all
that information, we're just
looking to connect people
who are already know what
they're going to be working on,
want to find another-- a group
or more people to
work on and with.
And they're taking
advantage of it.
There're over 800 groups from
90 plus countries right now
who are doing that.
So it's just the
exactly the antidote
to the global domination
agenda which is
about centralizing power and
then using deception and force
to control people's lives.
This is about being transparent.
It's about decentralizing power.
And then we're all
empowering each other
to actually fulfill
each person's vision
in collaboration
with each other.
So it's tremendously
rewarding what's going on.
>> Lilou: And you
have resolution,
I know free energy is
a big topic for you.
You've been-- how many
years, 15, 20 years?
>> FG: I've been in
the field for 12 years.
I've been studying the
physics and the geometry
and so forth my entire life.
But it first led to
my discovering various
and remarkable inventors
about 12 years ago.
So it's the biggest single
response we've got and other
than to solutions in
general from Thrive has been
to the possibility
of free energy.
Especially because people
recognize that it's one
of the things that could
make the biggest difference
so quickly.
And so we've been
blessed to be approached
by over 150 energy inventors.
And another 150 or 200
inventors in other fields
like health devices and new
types of organic agriculture
and hydroponics and so forth as
well as decontamination devices,
devices that with no chemicals
purify and revitalize water.
It's just so inspiring.
We-- The last line of our
theme song for Thrive was,
"We already have what
it takes to thrive."
And that has been
only confirmed.
So anyway, these-- so these
inventors are contacting us.
So we put together some vetting
teams, some experts in physics
and engineering, some in law,
some in security and so forth
that can go out and visit the
labs that seem most promising.
And I've been blessed to
visit many, many labs.
And I'm under nondisclosure
agreements so I can't talk
about all of the details
and it would be dangerous
for the inventors
to do so anyway.
I can just tell you that I
am so relieved and so excited
to see what's actually
going on in the world.
And then the flipside of that is
that we've also been approached
by many, many people of wealth
who have been frustrated
at not being able
to make a difference
in the world big enough
to assure their kids
and grandkids a safe
healthy world.
So they saw in Thrive
that we know something
about what's going on behind
the scenes that we were willing
to take a risk to
get that word out.
And the people seem to trust us.
So a lot of people have been
in connection with this.
And we're now-- we
kind of to refer to--
and the official name
is Thrive Connect.
But we're kind of a
cosmic dating service,
where we're hooking up
the money folks, investors
and philanthropist and so
forth with the innovators.
The technical innovators
but also the, you know,
the social transformation
innovators in all 12 sectors.
>> Lilou: You're big
relief for those inventors
to finally have a place to
speak out their inventions
and feel free because a
lot of stories went around
and I don't know how it
is really in reality.
But a lot of-- things have
been suppressed though.
>> FG: Oh, I can't tell you.
It is a very serious situation.
What we've said in the film was
only the tip of the iceberg.
You know, if anybody
wants to look it up.
If you look up people John
Bedini and Adam Trombly
and Stanley Meyer and not
to mention Nikola Tesla
and John Circu-- Cyril
[assumed spelling],
the litany goes on and on.
And people who have been
threatened, stopped,
gag-ordered, and in some cases
disappeared or killed outright
to keep safe clean energy
from being available
to people all over the world.
So it's a-- you know,
it's one of those moments
where our great grandchildren
will look back
and go, "They use to what?
Some people didn't want
people to have this?"
But anyway, so one of the
things we recognize is that,
it takes more than
just a good invention
to make it available
to the world.
You need to be aware
of security issues
and most inventors aren't.
You need to be aware of legal
issues, so you don't get stuck
into some frivolous lawsuit
that then eats up all your money
and you don't have any left
to complete your invention.
You need to be aware of
win-win business models.
There's often times and
adversarial relationship
between investors
or philanthropist
and inventors and innovators.
It doesn't need to be there.
But it's-- it needs real
facilitation to make sure
that everybody is being honored
and valued in the arrangements.
And then ultimately in
marketing and distribution,
how do you actually make sure
that the genie can't be
put back in the bottle.
So things-- you know,
the plans need
to be distributed
all over the world.
The devices need to
be distributed all
over the world before
they're announced.
Because if there
would be controllers,
the suppressors think
that they can stop it,
then the inventor is at great
risk because if something happen
to him, the idea
could die with him.
So it's a lot safer
for the inventors
if they have the support of the
security teams, business teams
and enough money to make
sure that they do it right.
Because it's more a matter of
politics, money and security
that these devices haven't
gone out then it is--
device is not working.
There's lot of devices
that don't work.
I would say over 90 percent
of the people who are working
on for energy, they're
haven't got it yet
or they think they've got it
but they don't have a
measure and so forth.
But that still leaves
another 10 percent already.
Somebody ask me an interview
a couple of weeks ago,
what I thought the situation
would be in five years
and I noticed myself saying I
think there would be probably
at least 200 companies selling
these new energy technologies
around the world
within five years.
And that will change everything.
>> Lilou: And so how do--
what are the one's that work?
What are they based on?
What is the model?
>> FG: Yeah.
Well as I said in the film.
First of all, they're all based
on "the torus," one
way or another.
It's just like different ways
that you put your
straw into the drink.
And there are some that create
circuits that act as antennas
which just draw energy
in from the environment
in which we live.
We're living in a sea
of infinite energy.
It's a matter of
how do you access
that in appropriate proportions.
There are others that have
particular arrangements
of magnetic coils in the right
geometries than mimic nature
to produce other effects.
There are some that involve
arrangements of magnets
or rotating magnetic fields.
There are others that
do what they call--
or that some of the
inventors called tickling the
nucleus literally.
So you're not getting
a nuclear explosion
but you're getting energy
being released at a low level
from the nucleus in ways
that can actually
generate a lot of power.
And in one of the themes
that we're seeing which is
such a paradigm shifter
is that traditionally
with the regular
electromagnetism.
You create a motor or generator,
you plug in a device, you know,
a heater or a driller,
a hair dryer whatever.
And each one that
you plug in grinds
down the capacity more and more.
You can hear the
motor go [inaudible].
Then, you know, it slows down.
There's a whole series of
what are called load following
devices which respond
to how much you want--
how much you're asking.
So that literally, you
plug in the next device
and it goes, "Oh, OK, whoa."
And then you plug in the
next and it goes whoa!
And so it's-- there is
something else going on.
These inventors are
starting to access
in many cases more
the aetheric rather
than just the electromagnetic.
So consciousness gets involved.
Almost all of these inventors,
they have different ways
at describing it and sometimes
it just intuitive they work
on a hunch.
Other times it's
interdimensional downloads.
Other times just
direct instruction
from extraterrestrial
entities of different sorts.
So there's a lot of facilitation
going on and those sources
as well tend to confirm
that we're accessing field
effects rather than just,
you know, boiling water
and creating steam.
And, you know, just
driving electricity
with mechanical energy
like that.
>> Lilou: That must
be exciting to have.
>> FG: Exciting.
>> Lilou: I mean the stories
of how they're getting
it too must be thrilling.
ETs, we didn't speak much of
it and our other interviews
but that's a really
a big resource, huh?
>> FG: Yeah.
In fact, some of the
sources have said
that it was inappropriate
to have this energy
available before.
But now it's exactly
the right time.
In fact it's the necessary time.
Because if we go down
the nuclear path,
it not only could destroy
all life as we know it
on this planet but
we're being warned
that that affects not only
our whole solar system
but the whole field of
consciousness and everything.
That's one of the reasons
why I believe the--
that we have such a dramatic
increase of sightings
and direct contact with
extraterrestrials starting
in 1947, right after
the only two--
you know, the first
two nuclear blast
that were actually
killed people.
So I think that we're getting
facilitation from other beings
who are more advanced in
some ways than we are.
Many times probably millions or
billions of years more advanced.
And they know the dangers
of that particular pathway.
We need to take the other fork
in the road that we describe
in the film as honoring
the natural flows of energy
and then dancing with
that in a harmonious way.
And turns out when you do that,
which about all inventors
are doing,
it pours out clean,
safe and abundant.
>> Lilou: How do you
bring that out then
into the world 'cause right
now what are you doing,
where are you at?
>> FG: Well, I can only say
a certain amount about that
because if too much is known
then it's easier to stop.
But the key thing
is decentralizing
so that no one person,
even know on lab
or even one company is holding
the genie in the bottle.
So what we're encouraging is
a dispersion of the knowledge,
a dispersion of the devices and
a multitude of companies all
over the world coming
out in synchrony
with one another
at the same time.
You know, it's kind of like that
whack-a-mole game at a park.
I don't know what they
call it in France.
But they have this game where
the mole heads will stick
up through these holes
and somebody is supposed
to whack them back down and
then it pops up elsewhere.
And basically that's what they
controller have been doing is
that they've been whacking
any adventurers head
that sticks up above
the surface.
But if they're all
coming up at the same time
and in multiple places and,
you know, we're suggesting
to all these inventors
and making sure
that they get the funding
to do this is they--
you know, if the NSA wants
to get into your lab,
they're probably going
to be in your lab.
They've got that kind of power
or they're more likely
they got the kind of force.
But if that's all recorded
on multiple hidden
surveillance cameras and goes
on YouTube the next hour and
the entire world sees the
suppression of what would
set them free economically
and energetically.
That's the best chance we
have-- of actual security,
so a dispersal of
the information
as well, of the security.
And then when it
comes to bring it out,
rather than just one person
all of a sudden, you know,
putting an ad to sell a
cold free energy device,
it wouldn't need to be
brought forward in a fun way,
in a very credible way.
Potentially at a big, you
know, globally publicized
and broadcast rock concerts,
or something like that.
Where you suddenly see that the
cameras go backstage and turns
out the concerts is
being run on free energy.
And then you help people come
out on the stage and there are--
are very credible people
from the worlds of science
and invention and
media and people
who the world would
tend to believe.
And these people have been being
brought up to speak on proof
of the technology,
on the theories behind
it, and so forth.
So that then, they can come
forward on mass and say, "Yes,
I know about this, it
is real I'm willing
to stake my reputation on it."
So at the same time, all-- and
the distribution needs to be,
immediately available.
So it merely starts getting
spread around the world.
But you already have
these technologies working
in small villages, in counties
that wouldn't necessarily be
able to afford it otherwise.
One of the things we're doing
with the inventors is working
out business plans,
where the revenue is
that would come in from this.
A significant percentage of
them go to building more devises
and to getting those devises
out to disadvantage people,
who would tend to
be last in line.
But who have the
strongest need for energy,
you know, of all in many cases.
So to developed win-win business
strategy so it isn't someone,
you know, hoarding free
energy or hoarding the money
or hoarding the capability.
But it's really, a whole range
of types of business plans
from just publishing the
plans on the internet,
and letting everybody built
this, so you can't put
that genie back in the bottle.
But if some companies are
already been putting themselves
at risk for decades, they've
got 20, 30 million dollars in--
into this project,
then it make sense
that they would get
acknowledged for that.
But rather than, you know, them
now all of a sudden being the,
you know, the Microsoft
of computers
or something like that.
What's happening more
and more is that,
people are developing plans,
where the revenue is really will
be shared everybody is going
to win from it, by
access to the technology
or by direct investment in
it or by the manufacturing
and distribution and so forth.
Really looking at a
whole new paradigm in a--
in dispersed and just types
of business plans not just
the energy itself being free.
>> Lilou: What are the
ones that are upbringings
of really good solutions out.
What do they have or what are
their way of being or thriving
in that and bringing
out this free energy.
Because I guess, a lot
of inventors do have
an ego, I'm sure.
And it's not about them
or their invention, right.
This is really at a
whole other scale.
So, is there some--
some things that you see
that those good inventors have
within them, or that seen?
>> FG: That's a great question.
I would say the main
thing is humility.
I mean I-- I have spent a lot of
my life with unusual thinkers,
let's say, on a lot of kind
of mad scientist types,
who I absolutely love
hanging out with.
But very often, they've spent
so much time in the lab and out
so far in a particular direction
that they don't have any sense
of how to do a business.
They don't have any
sense of security.
They don't-- often times
don't even have much
in terms of social skills.
But they usually have a very
deep spiritual connection
and that's very often why
they're getting this type
of guidance.
So all they're looking
for is collaboration
that they can trust, now I
know I visited one lab a couple
of months ago that was the most
inspiring one I've ever been to.
Where they started out with
six scientists under one roof
and they've expanded
it to 30 now.
And they have significant
funding and their--
the business is setup
so that they all benefit
from anyone's success.
So rather than everybody staying
in their own little cubicle
and not sharing this,
they're all collaborating
with each other.
And I saw one project that was--
had been scheduled for
a year and half of R&D.
They completed it in two months
because different inventors
know different things.
And when you run across a
problem, instead of having
to solve that problem yourself,
if you got 29 other inventors,
there's a good chance someone
else knows how to do this.
And that's what's happening in
that lab and as I've gone around
and been welcomed
fortunately into so many labs.
I get to see that lab
number 1, has A and B
and they need C. Lab number 2
over here has B and C already,
and they need D. And then
there's another one over there
with D, E and F. And so what's
happening in our culture
in the consciousness and in the
world of energy invention is
that people are starting to
find people that they can trust
and starting to collaborate.
And so the breakthroughs
are coming much faster
and it's starting to come
out as interindependent
but interrelated teams
rather than just isolated,
you know, vulnerable geniuses.
>> Lilou: So applicable
to so many fields.
>> FG: Exactly, yeah.
And we're seeing the same
thing in agriculture.
You know, this one guy who wrote
me, even worked for a decade
on creating a new
type of agriculture
where the plants need a
third of the resources
that the plants would've
taken in a normal situation
and produce twice the yield.
Well, he was naive.
He even invited a venture
capital company to come in
and look as bunch of that--
you know, big bankers
from the east coast--
>> Lilou: You're going to
see something else faster--
[ Laughter ]
>> FG: And so they looked at it.
And one of them said
to the other, "Oh,
the big boys aren't
going to like this."
At which point the
guys started to think,
may be he was talking
to the wrong people.
And they-- so they kind
of went off and had powwow
and they said, "Well, no
sorry we're not interested."
A week later, he comes
back, he's lives on a farm,
he comes back in
driving in his driveway
and he sees two guys in suits.
Jump out of he's
greenhouse, jumping a,
you know, 4 by 4 and take off.
And I'm sure they
will see their version
of that technology around soon.
But the same thing is
happening in each field
that these brilliant
inventors are coming
through with these concepts
that are aligned with nature.
They're simple.
They're elegant.
They're harmonious.
And they end up being
healthy and productive,
you know, prosperous as well.
The only thing that's in the way
is the stifling by these powers
that want to, you know,
control everybody's lives
and maintain there old interest.
But that I assure you
is coming down also.
>> Lilou: How about even
regarding the GMOs and the seeds
and I've been to know each, so
this big seed bank or at least
in Oslo to speak
with these people.
And a lot of us were
wondering what's really going
on up there 'cause even
when speaking to them,
they don't know say of course.
But how do you even
find solution to that?
>> FG: Well, you probably
read that in Hungary,
I believe it was, where
they have banned GMOs
from the entire country.
They've found a secret field, 55
hectares or something like that
of GMO Monsanto sugar beets.
So the people just come in and
set fire to the entire field.
Their message was
jut very clear.
It's like, no, we meant it,
no GMOs because they're aware
not only the health issues
but of the contamination.
Now there's a-- there's a
crossing point where it's hard
to get back from fields
that are contaminated.
Same thing just happened
up in Oregon as well.
So people are catching
on to that and they--
if you stop and look the same
entities many times the Gates
Foundations, Syngenta, Monsanto
are both pushing really hard
on the complete take over
of agriculture spent.
Not only in the US but
they're being fought off pretty
effectively in Europe.
Thank you Europe.
But they're really going to
heavily in Africa, trying to get
into South America and so forth.
So they're pushing
these dangerous things
which make people and
animals sick, dead, infertile.
While at the same
time funding these,
what they call this
dooms day seed vault
in Svalbard in Norway.
So that doesn't make any
sense until you recognize
that there're two
different agendas going on.
And they're telling the
public you need GMOs.
Meanwhile for themselves,
they're hoarding the healthy
seeds, the organic seeds
which I think they plan
on bringing out later
on after they've depopulated.
>> Lilou: It is for corporation
as you clearly said to me
that these were for corporation
and in fact individuals
didn't leave them in there.
Not small amounts.
>> FG: Well in the UK,
I just read an article
a couple of days ago.
In the UK they-- in
the government now,
they have created a ban on
GMO foods in the restaurants
in the government buildings.
Meanwhile our government
is trying
to push GMO crops
on their people.
So once again, if
you put on the lens
of the global domination agenda
horrifying as it is it helps
to distinguish between
what's being said
and what's actually
being done and why.
>> Lilou: So you're clearly--
your big thing is free energy
but there is some-- there is
so many different solutions
out there and other inventors.
Are there some other
things that you found about
and that you really care
for saying or mentioning?
>> FG: Yeah, my big thing is
not necessarily free energy,
though I'm really enthusiastic.
My big thing is wholeness.
And if you look at the words
in healing wholeness, holiness,
they all come from
the same root.
And it all has to
do with integrity
which is maintaining the
wholeness of a system, you know,
if a lightning storm comes along
and knocks a branch of a tree.
There's a wound in that
tree, just like in your body
and your body and the tree
know how to heal that wound.
We are already programmed
for wholeness,
because that's what
allows life to go forward.
So what we've found is in
all of the different sectors,
whether its environment or
education or media, arts,
spirituality, food,
whatever it is, energy.
The key is to honor the
wholeness of a system.
And that's represented
by the toroidal dynamic
because that's how wholeness
creates itself in nature,
but it's still open to allowing
energy to come into the system,
nurture the system,
and go back out again.
You and I are each big physical
torus as well as energy torus.
So as every seed that we eat, so
as every tree and every plant,
the planet we live on, the
solar system, the galaxy.
We're just embedded in this
sea of toroidal dynamics.
So what we're encouraging
people to do,
as they go after all these--
you know, over 120 issues,
is look to see what would
that system look
like when it's whole?
What is a-- What is an
honest currency look like?
What does a healthy
ecosystem look like?
What is an honest
media system look like?
And then see what's in the way.
Get the story, do the science,
do the investigative report,
whatever it takes to tell
the story of the deception
and distraction that's going
on in the way of the wholeness.
Once you do that, there's a
lot of media now in the earth
that will cover that,
even mainstream media
if the story is compelling
enough.
And once you expose that
in bringing the solution
at the same time, which is
a healthy currency is an
honest currency.
Now that's actually
backed by something
of value, that's transparent.
That no one gets to control.
A healthy ecosystem is one where
you allow the balance of plants
and birds and bugs and
human beings and all--
where you allow that
to continue.
And you don't poison the water,
you don't poison the plants,
you don't poison the air.
So that critical
thinking can be applied
to every single issue with God.
And it turns out that horrifying
as the number of issues are,
they're mostly created by a
very small group of people
and they're all human made.
We don't have a giant comet
and coming toward the
planet as far as we know.
That would be a serious problem
for which we don't
have an answer.
But all of these
problems are human made,
the economic problems, the
environmental problems.
So they can be human
fixed if we wake up.
Follow this sort of
model and get on it now,
which people are doing.
>> Lilou: I heard also
of some of the solutions
of this government,
whatever, we're also received
by extraterrestrial
beings though.
Like they have received some
technology that we're not so--
so they're not all human made.
I mean, I guess there are some
good and bad ones there too, no?
>> FG: Well, it's a very
interesting question
which I can't confirm absolutely
myself but I have, you know,
high level of contacts
including, you know,
whistleblowers from
Area 51 and so forth
that had been educating
me a lot.
And, yes, the extraterrestrials
apparently have been sharing
advance technology
sometimes in refer--
in trade for the ability
to manipulate some people
or some parts of
the environment.
You just take some of resources
or whatever from this planet.
So we need to be very
careful about that,
because a species is
technologically advanced enough
to get here from another
solar system, doesn't mean
that we need to give up
our sovereignty to them
or that we need to
do backdoor deals
that affect other human beings
without them being consulted.
My impression is, you know,
I went from, you know,
early on my life, recognize
there's got to be, you know,
a sanctioned life in the
universe this size besides us
to recognizing that, yes, we've
been visited for millennia
by all sorts of different ships
and so forth, to realizing
that we're continuing
to be visited by many,
many different species,
five or six primary ones.
But multiple different species,
each with different agendas
and that ultimately come back
to where we're probably
living in the Star Wars bar.
And it's going to become more
and more obvious, some of them
in the grounds, some them off
the earth, some of them are
in realms of vibration
that we can't see or hear.
But often times their
communication
with us is telepathic.
Often times they-- you
know, the inner guidance
that we get maybe coming
from more advance species
which are looking to
help to protect the earth
so we don't blow ourselves
up with nuclear weapons
or poison the earth the
way that we're doing now.
But I think that ultimately the
relations, even if they're not
so called human relations,
the relations whether its
with the plants and
threes or with the insects
and the animals, or with
entities from beyond our planet,
it's always a matter of
honoring the wholeness of each
of our being and then
doing voluntary exchange
and association rather than any
coercion or subjugation at all.
>> Lilou: I have question
regarding what makes a movement,
'cause I saw one of these books,
there are so many books here.
But there are some about
what makes a movement thrive
or happen and another
that doesn't, you know,
what's your sense here of--
because this is a real movement,
Thrive Movement, what can
we get successful versus not
with all the solutions, all
these people, all these website?
>> FG: Well, Kimberly and
I believed that the key
to a success movement is
basing it on natural principles
that honor the sanctity
of every being,
and then empowering people
and self creating movements
without creating any
new violations at all.
And that seems to
be very effective.
We're not out to tell
anybody what to do.
We're not out to control
some large organization.
We're doing just the opposite,
I mean people are call--
you know, writing everyday,
saying "Oh, what can I do?"
And basically we write back
and say, here's, you know,
just an infinite selection
of things that can do,
but first look into your heart,
find out what your purpose
and joy is and then write to us
and let us know what
you're doing.
Find people in your area of
interest or in your local region
and then initiate your projects.
And then, we'll just all keep
in communication with each other
about what's working and
what's not, rather than try to,
have any centralized
control over any of it.
>> Lilou: So it's not anymore
perimetral, it's more like flat.
>> FG: Yeah.
It's like a whole archaical,
the evolution of biology
as we're talking
about whole ones
and a wholearchy [phonetic],
where, you know, when I talked
about these toruses
from the atom level
to the galactic level.
We are also somewhere
in that wholearchy.
So it's not so much a hierarchy,
certainly not a command
and control hierarchy.
But we recognize that each of us
is embedded in a larger system
and we have other systems
embedded within us.
And if we treat all of
that with awareness,
with honoring the
wholeness and with the sense
that in spirit we're all one,
seems to work out consistently.
>> Lilou: And they could
know the-- how could the--
what could be some of the
reason to why, it would--
it could fell, you know, what
are some things to watch for?
>> FG: That's a great question.
The main reason we see why it
fails is, when first of all
if people try to control others.
Secondly-- And that
leads to decision making.
Decision making is absolute
critical, you know, from a--
within inside yourself,
to a couple, to a family,
to an activist group, to
a corporation, whatever.
It always comes down to
decision making and that's
where conflict tends to arise.
So if you have decision making
practices based on solid,
just principles,
that really helps.
You're still going to have
dissension now and then.
So you need to have at least
some people in the group
who are very skilled
in conflict resolution,
harmonious conflict resolution.
And then ultimately, the group
needs to be sufficiently aligned
on its purpose and
mission that you--
when you have difficult
decisions,
you can go back to the mission.
Rather than just someone exerts
their power, or flip a coin
or something like that,
you go, "Oh wait a minute,
let's see why we got
together in the first place,
and see what decision,
best matches that.
So those are some of the, the
key elements that we're looking
to empower people with, as they
form groups around the world.
>> Lilou: Is there some
other things to say here,
as we're speaking
of solutions to,
so that whole civilization
thrives?
>> FG: Well, one really
good piece of news is
that most people have been
so trained into scarcity
that they think there isn't
enough money to go around.
There is plenty of
money to go around,
it's just been consolidating
into the hands of the very few.
And, we outlined very
briefly in the movie
that if we simply cut the
American military budget
in half, it would still be as
big as essentially the rest
of the world combined.
So it's clearly not
a defense budget,
it's an imperialist budget.
If we cut that in
half, we would fine.
And then if you get rid
of the Federal Reserve,
which is just this fake
money printing, banking scam.
Then that freeze up over
1.3 trillion dollars a year.
And there was a study done, by--
I think it was the Wordwatch
Institute, that they predicted
that to solve all of the world's
basic problems of poverty,
justice, health and environment,
would take about 190
billion dollars a year.
Well, we're talking about 1.3
trillion dollar being freed
up just in the US.
And that's before bringing
in free energy, honest money,
all that kind of stuff.
There's more than enough money
just in reforming what's going
on in the US to heal
the entire world.
So when you start
looking at that happening
in all the countries, it's
going-- the money situation,
the resource situation is
going to be like free energy.
There's plenty and more
to go around as long
as we honor natural
principles and the sovereignty
and sanctity of one another.
>> Lilou: Foster Gamble,
president, president.
>> FG: No politics, thank you.
You see that's the source of the
problem in the first-- that was.
I was actually asked to
run for the vice president
on the Green Party Ticket.
And I said I'm really honored
and flattered by the offer.
But go-- look at the
end of the movie again
because in my opinion
the most dangerous thing
on the planet right now is
this belief that we need
to be governed by somebody else.
If you look-- the evidence
is obvious that the idea
of the state, the course
of state is the most destructive
concept in human history
by far is now surpassed the
church in terms of the death
and destruction and
continues at a rapid pace.
But we're also trained that--
oh now you look and see
how do they doing in terms
of running organizations?
Well, the US is the
most indebted entity
in the history of the planet.
So the track record for central
government is not great and
yet you and I and
virtually everyone else
that I know has been
indoctrinated literally
since elementary school.
To think that well, you know,
debt and taxes are the only
things that are certain.
You're going to have to pay
your taxes 'cause we have
to have a government because
otherwise everything would
be chaos.
And in fact we need
to reinspect that one.
And I spent the last seven years
studying this more intensely
than anything else.
And I can tell you the news is
as good as when I found aikido
and realized that
you could be strong
in gentle at the same time.
In fact the more
general you were,
the more stronger you could be
into protecting yourself
in your loved ones.
The same principle is
applied in free energy.
As long as you're not crushing
at or burning at or whatever
as long as you honor the flow,
you got into the
energy available.
The third big discovery
of my life was this whole
like cruel liberty conversation.
Where it brings up the point,
the fundamental moral question
at one point-- at one point
is it OK for you or me
to go violate someone else or
for someone else to violate you.
And most people say to me
well that's a trick question.
We can't really answer that.
I said no, I think it's
the one we need to answer.
And if you-- and of course,
everyone gets, well, you know,
the golden rule and you
shouldn't violate other people.
But then you turn
right around say, well,
of course we have
to have government.
Every government by
definition depends
on involuntary taxation
to survive.
So they're going to come
take your money whether you
like it or not.
And if you say, "No, I don't--
I didn't agree to that they're
going to pull out a gun,
they're going to take you
off and put you on the cage.
Or shoot you or something.
And that's the violence on
which our civilization is based.
And until we recognized that
and really start exploring the
alternatives of how a society
with rules about non-violation,
protection of the environment,
so were-- the rules are there
but they're independent
justice organizations
and independent business
transactions and so forth.
It turns out that that's much
more successful throughout
history whenever it's
allowed to exist.
And the track record of
the state just always leads
to tyranny and violence.
So fortunately, one
of the things
that gives me most hope is I
know that there's a way out.
But I think this is going
to be the primary thing I'll be
involve in the rest of my life.
Even now beyond free energy and
reform in the economic system
and everything, this
whole notion
that we each should have
absolutely equal rights,
true liberty and justice for
all 'cause we're not there yet,
I think is the key to humanity
surviving and thriving.
>> Lilou: Thank you so much
for this amazing conversation.
I really, really enjoyed it.
And it's been an honor to be
interviewing you today here
in front of all those books.
My goodness there's a
lot of knowledge here.
Thank you for putting
your mind at this
and your heart because
that counts.
>> FG: You are welcome, Lilou.
Thank you so much for what you
do to get to speak with people
like you and the people in your
network about these issues.
It inspires me and I look
forward to future collaborations
with those of you
who feel called to.
>> Lilou: [Background Music]
Big, big kisses to all of you.
Gosh! This is good.
Big kisses bye.
[ Music ]